[Music]
all right welcome to the smartphone
Awards 2024 every year dozens and dozens
of smartphones come out and this is one
of the most highly anticipated videos of
the Year where we get to reward and
highlight some of the absolute best of
them and some of the worst so we have 10
categories to go through tonight each
one of of them may have potentially some
Runner UPS or some honorable mentions
depending on if they deserve it of
course but then every category will have
its overall winner and every overall
winner will get a custom trophy that
we've made like usual so if you are a
tech company watching this and you win a
trophy reach out let me know I can send
you the trophy so there are a lot of
phones on this desk in front of me from
all different manufacturers some of them
flagships some of them cheap some of
them big some of them small some of them
easy to get some of them hard to get but
they all have one thing in common which
is they all came out during this
calendar year of
2024 so let's give out some awards so
the first category best big phone so the
idea behind this category was to sort of
separate smaller phones and then the
bigger phones and then reward the
absolute best big phones but the thing
about phones these days is they're all
kind of big now like phones are just
getting bigger so I'm going to try to
reward the absolute biggest ones and the
ones that make the most use of having a
little bit of extra space so like here's
an example the Rog phone 9 this came out
late in the calendar year but because
it's a gaming phone they sort of Target
all the things that make it good at
gaming and they also happen to make it a
great regular phone huge 6.8 in screen
also huge speakers also huge battery
it's great for regular phones it even
has a headphone jack but it's not
perfect you know nothing's perfect but
one got really really close this year
and that's the Vivo X200 Pro again a
phone to come out late in the calendar
year but they basically did everything
with this phone you can see the huge
camera bump there's some incredible
camera Hardware in here another huge
screen but one phone did outdo it there
was one big phone that kind of nailed
everything about being a big phone and
that's the winner which is the Samsung
Galaxy s24 Ultra Samsung has got this
formula down to a science they have made
a really good use of space in the Ultra
Series of phones for years now really
nice screen probably one of the best in
any smartphone also with this really
good anti-reflective coating that kind
of went under the radar but is really
good on this phone really good cameras
on the back without protruding too much
it also has a huge battery while still
having a stylus down there there's just
a lot going on in this phone and all the
software to back it up plus it recently
started getting this one UI 7 beta which
jumps it to Android 15 it's getting
software updates just a lot of good
things going on with this phone it's
skewed with these Awards sometimes to be
the phones that came out later in the
year this came out in January still
deserves the award so then next category
best small phone this is kind of a sad
one actually this year because while
like you've seen lots of phones have
been getting bigger and bigger the small
phones usually would pull up the rear
there'd be a couple small phones that
sort of float around and deliver that
special experience for people who want a
flagship but that's not huge the mini
iPhones and the Zen phones of the world
uh but those are all dead now so then
what's left could be the best small
phone among all the stuff that we saw
come out this year here think about this
the Samsung Galaxy s24 came out earlier
this year right it's not that big of a
phone it's a 6.2 in display it's the
smallest Flagship that they made 6.2in
screen is bigger than the phone that won
the best big phone 10 years ago which
was the 5.7in Galaxy Note 4 so that just
shows you how crazy it's gotten you know
there's the Vivo X200 mini also came out
that was still over 6 in really good
phone for that size and I also
considered the flipping phones every
year they're they're appealing as small
phones but then you open them up and
they're huge again ultimately what I
settled on was the iPhone
16 best small phone 2024 so the iPhone
16 is rocking a 6.1 in display note that
it's the same body size as the iPhone 16
Pro but with a slightly smaller screen
but I really like the way that Apple
stepped up the Basse phones this year
they have really good cameras really
good battery life Flagship chip
performance years of software updates
more RAM than the Basse phones I've ever
had and yeah I could have given this to
the 16 Pro because of how mad I am
personally about the lack of higher
fresh rate but everything else about the
base iPhone feels as close to the
flagship as it's ever been and I even
prefer things like the matte rails and
the real variety of colors they've just
done a really good job with the iPhone
16 so in this world of so many phones
being so gigantic and trying to pack as
as much as possible into a huge phone
and being a two-handed phone shout out
to the couple of one-handed phones still
left so then that brings us to our next
category of the night best camera so
things are always interesting in the
camera space for a couple of reasons
number one obviously the hardware just
keeps getting better and better year
after year better Periscope cameras
bigger sensors all the Optics improve
but also this year especially we've just
seen a ton of AI stuff everyone is
expected to have some AI especially in
their cameras whether it's AI scene
recognition or AI portrait mode or AI
background object removal whatever it is
there's got to be AI in just about every
camera so in that way I I can definitely
say that my criteria for best camera has
moved around a bit and this feels like
one of the most competitive years ever
for cameras you know the pixel we didn't
do the blind camera test this year but I
suspect it would have done really well
again they still have that look to them
and the Galaxy s24 Ultra is just
consistently so good at photos and
videos for Android phones every year but
one really stood out to me this year and
again it came out late during the
calendar year but the Vivo X200 Pro man
if you haven't heard about this phone
this has got some serious camera
hardware and the reason it stood out to
me is because it feels like it comes the
closest to an actual real camera
shooting experience and results out of
anything on this table so Hardware Wise
It's already high-end it's got a really
big 50 megapixel main sensor it also has
a large 50 megapixel Ultra wide and it
has a 200 megapixel sensor behind that
Periscope zoom lens as well the shots
that come from it have this great
natural depth of field as well the
camera app is quick and full of options
and the super high resolution on that
telephoto lens means that it can go from
the 3.7x optical way way in and still
maintain sharpness even without doing
the s24 Ultra dual telephoto thing plus
I had a lot of fun playing with the
portrait lens looks built in which can
shape and stylize the bokeh in a way
that's really convincing even if the
subject cutouts aren't perfect but it
didn't win my award this year look I'm
just as tired of it as you guys are but
if you had to take just one smartphone
from this table from this year to take
all of your photos and videos The Choice
is still the iPhone 16 Pro the streak
continues and yeah I hate them winning
every year just as much as an next
person but look ask anyone who shoots
and relies on videos and photos from
their smartphone regularly what they
would use and the answer just keeps
coming back iPhone 16 Pro obviously it's
easy to shoot with it's simple and it's
reliable over and over again it produces
that similar look and they added a lot
of specific features this year to
dialing in that look so you have all
these new manual controls you have all
these formats that you can shoot in and
the video is consistently unparalleled
from the 4K 30 and the autofocus to the
super stabilized video to the super
slow-mo video I I honestly want another
smartphone to come along and knock it
off its post and I think we're closer
than ever to that but for right now
iPhone's still the truth in the camera
Department next category best value
every year this is the most interesting
and competitive category because there
are so many options that come out in the
value budget space even some that are
not on this table in front of me uh that
are super competitive and all have
different things that they prioritize
and at different price points and that's
always the question about value isn't it
what what price point are we going to
have that qualifies it as a as a value
phone is it should just be anything
under 500 bucks or anything under 400
maybe that makes more sense or maybe it
should just be anything that just has
the absolute max value for the price
that you can shove in a phone even if it
is a
flagship and that's actually what I'm
doing the fact is it's just harder
though for a more expensive phone to
actually deliver on much more value the
classic law of diminishing returns how
can an $800 phone give you twice as much
value as a $400 phone it just can't so
you know redmi every year has a ton of
really competitive options also it seems
like Poco is always churning out at
every single price point they possibly
can but what stood out to me this year I
do want to give a shout out to the pixel
8A it came out at 500 bucks and has a
really good camera system in this price
range but it did kind of feel like it
was clashing a little bit with the pixel
8 but also the cmf phone one came out
this year and this was a $200 phone that
delivered a lot of value in a bunch of
ways but also in just fun and modularity
and accessibilities and and this unique
design and you don't see a lot of you
don't see any really other I guess one
other Orange phone on this desk but this
is a really interesting phone to come
out and was actually easy to recommend
so 200 bucks it gets a shout out for
sure but my winner for best value for
2024 that's going to go to the nothing
phone 2A so this phone launched at $350
it gave you a big bright 120 HZ screen
with uniform bezels all the way around
that's rare check Flagship size 5,000
mAh battery with 45 W charging check a
serviceable 50 megapixel main Camera
Plus an ultra wide if you need it check
under display fingerprint reader you
know it didn't Benchmark super high but
their performance has always been really
smooth they do a great job optimizing
their software and then of course the
glyphs on the back however you feel
about those this is just one of those
phones that costs way less than all the
other flagships here but as you use it
at least as I used it it consistently
feels as smooth as and as well thought
out as any other Flagship especially
with the smoothness of the software so a
big shout out to them for that it keeps
getting software updates I hope it gets
way more nothing phone 2A impressive
value 2024 there's your champ so then
next category best
battery there's been a lot more phones
pushing the battery limits this year and
you know this award is is is just for
battery experience overall which
includes battery life so I can't help
but notice when there's way more
55500 6,000 mlia batteries in these big
flagships that I've seen in a long time
but it's not purely just the biggest
battery capacity that's going to win you
my award for this I'm not just going to
give this to the 28,000 milliamp
Energizer phone that does exist every
every year it's crazy it's just peace of
mind right long battery life is one
thing but then lots of good battery
maintenance features convenient fast
charging is another thing like the big
iPhones come out every year and they
have really good battery life but they
just charge too slow so the Samsung
Galaxy s24 Ultra comes out this year has
a 5,000 mAh battery with room for the
stylus as well it also has 45 watt Peak
charging and wireless charging and it
just seemed to last forever like this is
a phone you could use all day easily
with this big bright screen but that
wasn't enough that wasn't enough there
was almost a subcategory of what I would
consider like Mega flagships that came
out this year that sort of took things
to the next level Oppo Find X8 Pro again
a late addition to the calendar
5,900 mAh battery and also 80 watts of
peak charging so this can go 0 to 100 in
a little under an hour it also could do
50 watt Wireless charging with the right
air vuk charging pad it's ridiculous
still wasn't enough the Vivo X200 Pro
also came out this year had a 6,000 mAh
battery and 90 watt charging still
wasn't enough because there is one phone
that crossed my desk this year again
pretty late that had two things that I
hadn't really seen much at all during
the calendar year which was the new
Snapdragon 8 Elite Chip and A 7,000 mamp
battery that's your winner which is the
red magic 10 Pro this is a gaming phone
and it is entirely designed around
gaming with things like an exposed
active fan that sacrifices water
resistance for spinning up and keeping
it cool when it's gaming and charging
but the Snapdragon 8 Elite ship has been
like a superpower in a couple of phones
that it started to show up in late this
year there's a couple other phones that
have it but it has been dramatically
more efficient than the previous
generation which we love seeing so it
has that chip maybe leave a thumbs up if
you want to see a video just about the
Snapdragon 8 Elite but then it also has
a 7,50 mAh battery and so just that
combo alone makes this a 2-day phone
comfortably at 144 HZ which is sick you
could also turn it down to 60 HZ and do
even better than that if you want and
when you do have to charge it up it'll
go zero to 100 in half an hour or so
because it charges out 100 watts of peak
charging so it's just got a lot going
for it it also has all the battery
maintenance features you can cap it at
80% charging if you want it's also got
bypass charging to avoid thermal damage
there's just a lot in the battery
Department red magic 10 Pro battery
champ 20124 so our next category is the
best design if you hang out in the
YouTube comments section long enough
you'll read things like smartphones are
just kind of boring these days like
they're all the same as last year have
we reached Peak smartphone is nothing
different
anymore and if you agree with that you
kind of have to ignore some of the most
interesting stuff happening around the
edges some of the most Innovative and
fascinating design choices that we've
seen in a long time worth honoring a
little bit in 2024 the cmf phone 1 that
I talked about earlier this is one of
those great examples a super budget
phone that tries to Stand Out by doing
something a little bit different design
like a fun design being the reason you
buy this $200 budget phone over others I
actually think from its Big Brother
company the nothing phone 2A did a lot
of similar things it's uh the glyph
design on the back the transparent stuff
they had some special editions they
thought a lot about design in this phone
and connected it to the software which I
think is really cool but when I'm giving
a design award I also I I don't want to
give it to anything that had a critical
flaw like I want to give it to someone
that just definitely didn't do anything
wrong like
s24 or pixel
9 but that would be boring so my design
Award winner for
2024 is the Huawei mate XT AKA the
trifold look you guys have seen the
video on this phone there were some
rumors now about it maybe not being
super durable honestly probably true
there is articles about maybe some bad
press being covered up because it's
Huawei and this phone's coming straight
out of China and they want to kind of
cover that probably true but the fact
that a real smartphone company had the
audacity to not just build a bunch of
these but build a lot of them and ship
them all and actually build features
around them that actually works I
actually remember reading those articles
about you know the the Spy shots of the
CEO of Huawei using this unique triple
folding thing on a plane and I remember
thinking okay yeah but that's he knows
he's being photographed he's that's not
a real phone they did not only did they
actually do it but this is a crazy
impressive phone it's super thin it has
the hinges it has the battery
distributed through everything it's got
the cameras on the back they've got
software features that work with both
two and three panels there's just so
much going for it I can't not I can't
not give this the award very deserving
of the design award for 2024 so then
next category conveniently best foldable
so we added this new category last year
just because it it was becoming more
clear than ever that foldables were
first of all more plentiful than ever
before there's more options than ever
before and it feels like they're here to
stay at least for a while so let's
reward the good ones and you know at the
beginning of the whole foldables
category it was kind of all Samsung like
they had that early lead because they
dove in so early
and you know they still make the zold 6
and it's a solid phone but I I wouldn't
say they're holding the torch anymore I
would actually say this phone right here
this is the honor magic V3 this is kind
of the mantle right now for best overall
foldable Hardware there's so much good
about this Hardware I mean it's
extremely thin it feels Flagship from
the lack of a crease inside to how much
battery and how much camera they fit in
this phone really really sturdy hinge
this a great really solid piece there's
also the triple fold you know that's a
crazy design as we already know but I'm
giving the award for best foldable of
2024 to the pixel 9 Pro fold I really
like what Google did with the design and
the hardware and the software of the
second ever folding pixel you know they
did change a lot and it is still very
usable while closed but they trimmed up
all the dimensions they flattened the
sides they improved the hinge the
cameras are all better and it feels
among the world of folding Android
phones that we have right now like the
most polished at least there's a lot of
good Android stuff going on to take
advantage of the folding screen like if
you force me to use a folding phone
right now as much as I would want the
hardware of the honor I would pick the
pixel fold and I I came close to
dailying this phone for quite a while in
this year really big fan of this phone
and if you've got to have a flip because
the flipping thing is different from the
folding thing I would still say Samsung
carries a torch there as well so little
shout out to the Z flip 6 no trophy for
you sorry but shout out to the pixel9
pro fold so next category one that's
been here again for all 10 of these is
the most improved award so most improved
year-over-year my first thought when
putting this category together was this
might be the hardest one to give out
this year like what really stood out as
the biggest Delta the biggest change a
lot of times it's one that actually went
wrong the previous year and sort of
rided the ship or maybe took a big leap
in something that was bad the previous
year
but what what really had the biggest
change from its previous year I mean you
have the Oppo Find X8 Pro which okay
much brighter screen this year they've
got improved cameras this new back is
really nice and also it's got the new
chipset and the new software and it's a
little more squared up that's nice I
don't know if it's going to win most
improved though and actually for the
first time in a while the base iPhones
were in consideration for this one the
iPhone 16 this this generation did the
most relative to the previous bass
iPhone to get it close to the pros that
we've ever seen and that's good for us
like more RAM great chipset improved
cameras and the new layout and obviously
it has the camera control button that
the pros have but it also isn't that
much better I think it's pretty clear
though the most improved smartphone over
last year's
version yeah that is definitely the
pixel 9 Pro fold the foldable pixel was
something we wanted for a long time and
the first pixel fold last year was a
cool idea right like we all wanted to
see it and Google finally delivered it
but if we're being honest with ourselves
it didn't really excel in any way with
the hardware especially like it was cool
seeing Android could improve and handle
the bigger screen on the inside but I
mean that thing had some pretty thick
bezels in there it didn't even fold flat
I'm going to say that again it didn't
even fold flat so the second generation
pixel fold here represents a glow up in
every single way like every every square
millim of this got better I think a lot
of us were expecting to see a second
generation OnePlus foldable but they
just didn't make it but this is kind of
the closest I think we could see to that
much better cameras much better thinner
hinge the whole thing is skinnier the
bezels on the inside are much better it
folds flat there's less crease the
outside screen is better it's brighter
everything is better so just from inside
to outside well done Google well done so
the next award is going to go to the
bust of the year year so okay this is
this is a weird one this is the award
you hate to have to give but I give it
every year anyway to a phone that gets a
shout out for how badly things
went but this is a little different from
previous years and you'll see why I'm
going just jump right into it I'm giving
the bus of the Year award to the Asus
zenphone 11 Ultra you get a big red
trophy for this one Asus the 11 Ultra
did not win anybody's favorite phone now
if it's any consolation this is the
first here that I'm giving this award to
a phone that's not actually that bad of
a phone it's fine this it's a okay phone
if you bought it I'm sure you'd be okay
with it but the point is it's it's more
representative of the whole category
because the Zen phones that came before
this Zen phone well you remember them
right those were actually really
interesting phones they won previous
Awards they took up some space in our
heads as smartphone enthusiasts where
they were actually giving us what we
said we wanted which was a flagship
phone that was actually small that was
one handable that fit everything we
wanted into a compact size and then they
just turned it into this just another
generic big phone it's it's fine but we
lost something today with this end phone
it's gotten to the point where I
genuinely don't know if we're going to
keep giving out a best small phone award
like phones have like I said gotten
bigger and bigger and bigger and I gave
you that stat earlier about how the
small phones are all bigger than the big
phones used to be so does that do that
mean we're going to be giving out a best
small phone award to a 6 and 1/2 in
screen phone in a year or two just
doesn't feel right but maybe by that
time phones will be even bigger and
it'll feel like a small phone I don't
know I haven't decided yet maybe your
comments will help me but this is a bus
of the year so our 10th and final
category in the 10th year of the awards
it's the MVP phone of the year there's a
lot of choice this always feels like the
highest pressure award it's also my
favorite just because what phone do I
choose to carry the torch to sort of
represent the entire year in smartphones
with all that we've just talked about
with all the exciting features and the
Risk Takers and the comeback stories and
the bust of the year and all this stuff
which phone gets the award and I think
my philosophy here is I am rewarding
overall greatness so there are a couple
runner-ups here that absolutely deserve
real Spotlight for a minute Vivo X200
Pro especially so like I didn't even
review this phone but again it came out
late this year and this phone this is
like God it all territory it's got the
awesome super bright screen it's got the
great chipset it's got these incredible
cameras and that shooting experience
great battery life super fast charging
what doesn't it have maybe just the
Snapdragon 8 Elite chip at this point
although it does have a pretty great
mediate Tech chip that's no slouch and
that enables a lot of its features but
in general you're in can't really go
wrong territory here but I keep you know
I'm looking around there's some other
really good ones here and I can't help
but look over back at the pixel 9 Pro
fold from being such a big comeback
story for the pixel fold series and
being such a good phone a foldable that
I would actually daily to this day and
doing so many things right this feels
like I should highlight it so here we
are but it didn't win you know what else
feels worth highlighting though this was
the year of the Bas iPhone especially
getting way more praise than the pro
iPhones this was the most complete bass
iPhone ever made it's getting Apple
intelligence and all that but it also
got more RAM new colors I like the matte
rails this was a really good year for
not spending $1,500 on an iPhone but
also in these smartphone Awards I
typically want to give a shout out to
the phone that I am currently daily
driving I could use basically any phone
so maybe that means something to you and
so that would be this one this is the
pixel9 pro XL that is kind of dinged up
and scratched but this is the phone I
use I use the XL over the smaller one
just because the extra battery life but
it didn't win we're rewarding greatness
here the MVP for
2024 is a Samsung Galaxy s24 Ultra this
phone is just so good at everything
literally everything I don't know how
many of you are golfers but let me just
make a quick analogy this phone is 2024
Scotty sheffler how is he so good at
everything he's an incredibly long
driver but he's also one of the most
accurate drivers on tour he also leads
te to Green Strokes gained he's also
making every putt inside 10t he has the
short game how is he so good at
everything but that's this phone it's
kind of boring actually and I think a
lot of golf fans will appreciate that so
is Scotty kind of but that's the point
is it's it's not making a ton of
headlines for any one flashy thing or
any one bad thing it's just so good so
if you want to reward a single phone
with a great screen a great chip a great
battery great cameras great software
great support great durability even the
anti-reflective coding on the screen is
way above average even the vibration
motor is good even the speakers are good
and I don't even use the stylus so this
this is the phone that I actually used
the most during 2024 and I think
probably of the last six seven eight
years of reviewing smartphones this is
the phone that I've come back to after
reviewing A phone more than any other I
think I use this phone for like 9 months
out of the year which doesn't sound like
that much but for me that's a long time
uh this phone it just does everything
right it deserves this award it might
not be the flashiest it might be the
most boring Choice here but I fully
think it deserves it this one carries
the torch I'm looking forward to seeing
the sequel but s24 Ultra that's her
phone of the year and with that thank
you for 10 years of the smartphone
Awards I don't get to do this that for
10 years without you guys obviously the
support and you watching means
everything and it's it's kind of the
greatest job ever getting to test all
these different phones and review them
all and give my honest feedback and
thoughts on them and to have that
actually count for something so it's
motivating to me to want to make the
next one even better than ever before so
10 down 10 more to go
maybe catch you guys in the next one
peace
m